
PLEASE READ THIS AGREEMENT CAREFULLY. BY PURCHASING, INSTALLING, DOWNLOADING OR
OTHERWISE USING THE SOFTWARE (INCLUDING ITS COMPONENTS), YOU AGREE TO THE TERMS
OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE TERMS, YOU ARE NOT PERMITTED
TO DOWNLOAD, INSTALL OR USE THE SOFTWARE AND YOU SHOULD NOTIFY THE PARTY FROM
WHICH YOU PURCHASED THE SOFTWARE TO OBTAIN A REFUND. AN INDIVIDUAL ACTING ON
BEHALF OF AN ENTITY REPRESENTS THAT HE OR SHE HAS THE AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO
THIS AGREEMENT ON BEHALF OF THAT ENTITY.

This End User License Agreement (“Agreement”) is a legal agreement between You
(an entity or a person) and HPCNow! (“Licensor”). The software product
identified in the title of this Agreement for which You have acquired licenses,
any media or reproductions (physical or virtual) and accompanying documentation
(collectively the “Software”) is protected by the copyright laws and treaties
of Spain and other countries and is subject to the terms of this Agreement. If
the laws of Your principal place of business require contracts to be in the
local language to be enforceable, such local language version may be obtained
from Licensor upon written request and shall be deemed to govern Your purchase
of licenses to the Software. Any add-on, update, mobile application, module,
adapter or support release to the Software that You may download or receive
that is not accompanied by a license agreement is Software and governed by this
Agreement. If the Software is an update or support release, then You must have
validly licensed the version and quantity of the Software being updated or
supported in order to install or use the update or support release.

